update algob console docs (#385)
scale-it/algo-builder: docs/guide/algob-console.md

## Usage

**NOTE:** Make sure you have installed [algob](https://github.com/scale-it/algo-builder#installation) and configured `algob` in your project. For creating and setting up a new project, click [here](https://github.com/scale-it/algo-builder#create-an-algob-project).

* To open console session run `algob console` in your project root.

> * To select network add `--network networkName` in command.(eg. `algob console --network localhost`)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* To select network add `--network networkName` to the command.(eg. `algob console --network localhost`)
```

* To exit `algob console` type `.exit`, `ctrl + D` or `ctrl + C` (twice).

> * To clear repl console, use `ctrl + L`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* To clear REPL console, use `ctrl + L`.
```

> * To break from a multiline expression, use `.break`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* To enter multi-line mode type: `.break`.
```

+ [Setup](./algob-console.md#setup)
+ [Transfer Algos](./algob-console.md#transfer-algos)
+ [Transfer Assets](./algob-console.md#transfer-assets)
+ [Transfer Algos according to ASC logic (Contract Account)](./algob-console.md#transfer-algos-according-to-asc-logic-contract-account)
+ [Transfer Assets according to ASC (Delegated Approval)](./algob-console.md#transfer-assets-according-to-asc-delegated-approval)

## Setup

In the  `examples/asa` directory:
1. Follow the README file
2. deploy assets and smart contracts using `algob deploy`

This will deploy your assets (`gold` and `tesla` in this case) and store asc1 `logic signature` in checkpoint for delegated approval mode. Also, let's initialize some of the accounts which we will use in further transactions.

Open a console session using `algob console` and initialize `master account` using `deployer` object
```bash
algob> masterAccount = deployer.accountsByName.get("master-account")
```
![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/33264364/97816308-735e8080-1cba-11eb-970d-50f8e3217d8f.png)

> Similarly, initialize few more accounts (check `algob.config.js` for more info regarding these example accounts)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Similarly, initialize few more accounts (check `algob.config.js` for more details about accounts used in ASA template)
```

```bash

> goldOwner = deployer.accountsByName.get("alice");
> john = deployer.accountsByName.get("john");
> bob = deployer.accountsByName.get("bob");

Reviewer: ```suggestion
let goldOwner = deployer.accountsByName.get("alice");
let john = deployer.accountsByName.get("john");
let bob = deployer.accountsByName.get("bob");
```

```

You can also retreive asset information from checkpoints. Eg.
```bash
algob> deployer.asa
Map(1) {
  'gold' => {
    creator: 'EDXG4GGBEHFLNX6A7FGT3F6Z3TQGIU6WVVJNOXGYLVNTLWDOCEJJ35LWJY',
    txId: 'QBKYATG6Y7BS5A5NXE6OYRZ5B5TY22EOJC2UEK25GFMW5S7WVEVA',
    assetIndex: 25,
    confirmedRound: 3446,
    assetDef: {
      total: 5912599999515,
      decimals: 0,
      defaultFrozen: false,
      unitName: 'GLD',
      url: 'url',
      metadataHash: '12312442142141241244444411111133',
      note: 'note',
      noteb64: 'noteb64',
      manager: 'WWYNX3TKQYVEREVSW6QQP3SXSFOCE3SKUSEIVJ7YAGUPEACNI5UGI4DZCE',
      reserve: '2ILRL5YU3FZ4JDQZQVXEZUYKEWF7IEIGRRCPCMI36VKSGDMAS6FHSBXZDQ',
      freeze: 'WWYNX3TKQYVEREVSW6QQP3SXSFOCE3SKUSEIVJ7YAGUPEACNI5UGI4DZCE',
      clawback: 'WWYNX3TKQYVEREVSW6QQP3SXSFOCE3SKUSEIVJ7YAGUPEACNI5UGI4DZCE',
      optInAccNames: [Array]
    }
  }
}
algob>
```
![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/33264364/122483007-45cb0b00-cfef-11eb-887b-0514be84579c.png)

> Let us now execute some transactions. We will use [`algob.executeTransaction`](https://github.com/scale-it/algo-builder/blob/develop/docs/guide/execute-transaction.md) for executing transactions on the Algorand Network.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now, we show how to use [`algob.executeTransaction`](https://github.com/scale-it/algo-builder/blob/develop/docs/guide/execute-transaction.md) to execute transactions in an Algorand Network.
```

## Transfer Algos

Here, we will transfer `1 Algo` from `masterAccount` to `john`. Code can be found in `/scrips/transfer/master-fund-john.js`.

Transaction params looks like :-

```bash
algob> rtypes = algob.runtime.types
algob> algoTransferParams = {
...   type: rtypes.TransactionType.TransferAlgo,
...   sign: rtypes.SignType.SecretKey,
...   fromAccount: masterAccount,
...   toAccountAddr: john.addr,
...   amountMicroAlgos: 1e6,
...   payFlags: { note: 'ALGO PAID' }
... };
{

>   type: 0,

Author: this a code snippet from console session i.e this is a log. (notice we start with `algob>`)

  sign: 0,
  fromAccount: {
    name: 'master-account',
    addr: 'WWYNX3TKQYVEREVSW6QQP3SXSFOCE3SKUSEIVJ7YAGUPEACNI5UGI4DZCE',
    sk: Uint8Array(64) [
       81, 210,  16, 184, 214, 254, 152, 138, 107, 191,  12,
      188, 175, 162,  72, 134,  82, 233, 249,  40,  97, 197,
      132,  81, 113,  16, 244,  19, 200, 221, 193, 155, 181,
      176, 219, 238, 106, 134,  42,  72, 146, 178, 183, 161,
        7, 238,  87, 145,  92,  34, 110,  74, 164, 136, 138,
      167, 248,   1, 168, 242,   0,  77,  71, 104
    ]
  },
  toAccountAddr: '2UBZKFR6RCZL7R24ZG327VKPTPJUPFM6WTG7PJG2ZJLU234F5RGXFLTAKA',
  amountMicroAlgos: 1000000,
  payFlags: { note: 'ALGO PAID' }
}
```

![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/33264364/122477861-09df7800-cfe6-11eb-9aa9-c99c04011d06.png)

> Executing the above transaction gives the following result:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Executing the transaction above gives the following result:
```

```bash
algob> await algob.executeTransaction(deployer, algoTransferParams);
{
  'confirmed-round': 3727,
  'pool-error': '',
  'receiver-rewards': 184,
  'sender-rewards': 3997582,
  txn: {
    sig: Uint8Array(64) [
       57, 175,  29, 200,  41, 197,  17, 105,  16,   6, 207,
      212, 234,  17,  11, 212, 103, 128, 253,  57,  65, 153,
       47,  59, 220, 182, 226, 212,  35,  72, 248, 103, 123,
       76,   1, 223, 193, 196, 117, 231, 147,  45,  80,  53,
      104, 133, 229, 135, 144, 198,  21, 238,  73, 253, 177,
      135, 114, 142,  42,  36,  42,  97, 130,  11
    ],
    txn: {
      amt: 1000000,
      fee: 257000,
      fv: 3725,
      gen: 'private-v1',
      gh: [Uint8Array],
      lv: 4725,
      note: [Uint8Array],
      rcv: [Uint8Array],
      snd: [Uint8Array],
      type: 'pay'
    }
  }
}
```

![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/33264364/122478061-5a56d580-cfe6-11eb-9bb4-7e2329dd7037.png)

## Transfer Assets

> We will transfer a single unit of Algorand Standard Asset `gold`(which we deployed during setup) from `goldOwner` to `john`. Relevant code can be found in `/scrips/transfer/gold-to-john.js`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We will transfer a single unit of `gold` ASA (which we deployed during the setup) from `goldOwner` to `john`. Relevant code can be found in `/scrips/transfer/gold-to-john.js`.
```

Let's use `.editor` mode of REPL to write & execute multiple lines of code at once:-
```bash
algob> .editor
// Entering editor mode (Ctrl+D to finish, Ctrl+C to cancel)
const rtypes = algob.runtime.types;
const gold = deployer.asa.get('gold'); // asa info from checkpoint
const goldOwner = deployer.accountsByName.get('alice');
const john = deployer.accountsByName.get('john');
algob.executeTransaction(deployer, {
  type: rtypes.TransactionType.TransferAsset,
  sign: rtypes.SignType.SecretKey,
  fromAccount: goldOwner,
  toAccountAddr: john.addr,
  amount: 1,
  assetID: gold.assetIndex,
  payFlags: {}
});
```
![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/33264364/122479488-c8040100-cfe8-11eb-8f42-291459fd6c69.png)

After transferring ASA, you can also check the balance (asset holding) of `john` using `algob.balanceOf(..)`
```bash
algob> await algob.balanceOf(deployer, john.addr, gold.assetIndex);
```
![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/33264364/122479899-7a3bc880-cfe9-11eb-99f2-e7ad70e2646f.png)

Similar example can be found in `/scrips/transfer/tesla-to-john.js` (tesla ASA).

> ## Transfer Algos according to ASC logic (Contract Account)

Reviewer 2: i couldn't find the link to file for this section, Please add it if not  added.
Ex: ``/scrips/transfer/tesla-to-john.js``

Author: yes, it's in `/scripts/transfer/gold-contract-sc.js`. We have a reference at the bottom of this section - [https://github.com/scale-it/algo-builder/pull/385/files/87c26bd2d7de5baee525f268e609e3d0eb5948b1#diff-fb6c1b787cf243abef74cf124766885f78c38a3081ccb2b5ff3ad0b52498b7e5R280](https://github.com/scale-it/algo-builder/pull/385/files/87c26bd2d7de5baee525f268e609e3d0eb5948b1#diff-fb6c1b787cf243abef74cf124766885f78c38a3081ccb2b5ff3ad0b52498b7e5R280)

Here we will transfer some `algos` from an algorand smart contract ([`/assets/teal/2-gold-contract-asc.teal`](https://github.com/scale-it/algo-builder/blob/develop/examples/asa/assets/teal/2-gold-contract-asc.teal)) to `john`.
+ We will first load the logic signature (using `deployer.loadLogic(<file_name>.teal)` and get it's address(`lsig.address()`).
+ This address will act as the sender(contract account mode) and receiver is `john`.
+ Finally, we transfer some algos using `algob.executeTransaction(..)` function. Transaction will pass/fail according to asc logic.
```
lsig = await deployer.loadLogic("2-gold-contract-asc.teal");
sender = lsig.address();
```
![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/33264364/97818537-e3740300-1cc8-11eb-81cd-a64e80106cf7.png)

> The contract ensures that amount in microalgos must be >=100, otherwise the transaction will be rejected.

Author: thanks for catching

Transaction Pass:
```bash
algob> .editor
// Entering editor mode (Ctrl+D to finish, Ctrl+C to cancel)
// Transactions for Transaction for ALGO - Contract : '2-gold-contract-asc.teal'  (Contract Mode)
// sender is contract account
const algoTxParam = {
  type: rtypes.TransactionType.TransferAlgo,
  sign: rtypes.SignType.LogicSignature,
  fromAccountAddr: lsig.address(),
  toAccountAddr: john.addr,
  amountMicroAlgos: 20n, // amt < 100
  lsig: lsig,
  payFlags: { totalFee: 1000 }
};

> // Transaction PASS - As according to .teal logic, amount should be <= 100

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
// Transaction passes - As according to .teal logic, amount should be <= 100
```

Author: i like the current one

algob.executeTransaction(deployer, algoTxParam);

{
  'confirmed-round': 4418,
  'pool-error': '',
  'receiver-rewards': 93,
  'sender-rewards': 1,
  txn: {
    lsig: { l: [Uint8Array] },
    txn: {
      amt: 20,
      fee: 1000,
      fv: 4416,
      gen: 'private-v1',
      gh: [Uint8Array],
      lv: 5416,
      rcv: [Uint8Array],
      snd: [Uint8Array],
      type: 'pay'
    }
  }
}
```

Transaction fail:
```bash
algob> .editor
// Entering editor mode (Ctrl+D to finish, Ctrl+C to cancel)
const invalidTxnParams = {
  type: rtypes.TransactionType.TransferAlgo,
  sign: rtypes.SignType.LogicSignature,
  fromAccountAddr: lsig.address(),
  toAccountAddr: john.addr,
  amountMicroAlgos: 200, // amt > 100
  lsig: lsig,
  payFlags: { totalFee: 1000 }
};

> // Transaction FAIL - Gets rejected by logic - As according to .teal logic, amount should be <= 100

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
// Transaction fails - Gets rejected by logic - As according to .teal logic, amount should be <= 100
```

algob.executeTransaction(deployer, invalidTxnParams);

> // rejected by logic

Reviewer 2: ![Screenshot from 2021-06-22 09-34-23](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/26249903/122861448-1d1f7a00-d33d-11eb-8790-6390fcd31af0.png)

i think this error needs to be updated, i got this error. `Bad Request` is not much clear also.

Author: i posted the error i got in the session (without editing anything). I don't think we should edit the response. note that this is a code snippet/snapshot

Reviewer 2: why it is different than this ? it is what i got

Reviewer 2: `without editing`

Author: because account state is different in different networks. I got a very big error message, also the screenshot you shared only displays the bottom. 

I would've been a very large snippet otherwise, main goal is to display transaction was rejected. Feel free to share your response, if it's shorter, i will replace this one.

Reviewer 2: that means you have edited the response. no ?

Reviewer 2: and you wrote `you will get something like this`

Reviewer 2: yes main goal is `rejected by logic` and not `BAD REQUEST` which is very unclear and also i don't how you got it.

Author: leaving something like `...` is pretty obvious to anyone that we're trying to avoid messing up leaving a very large  response.

> yes main goal is rejected by logic and not BAD REQUEST which is very unclear and also i don't how you got it.

The message starts from bad request. as said above, could you just share the entire code snippet ? I will replace this one with yours if it's shorter.

Reviewer 2: no point in discussing this, do as you wish

> // Transaction FAIL - Gets rejected by logic - As according to .teal logic, amount should be <= 100

Reviewer: ```suggestion
// Transaction FAIL - rejected by logic. According to .teal logic, amount should be <= 100
```

    16,  36,  18,  49,   0,  40,  18,  16,  49,  18,  37,  14,
    16,  17,  49,  16,  36,  18,  49,  32,  50,   3,  18,  16,
    49,   9,  50,   3,  18,  16,  49,   1,  33,   4,  14,  16,
    16
  ],
  args: [],
  sig: Uint8Array(64) [
     91, 218, 167,  24,  16, 245,  64, 176, 167, 113, 206,
    221,  37, 222, 184, 149,  22, 193, 197, 144,  50,  10,
    135, 207, 224,  74, 210, 194, 107,  66, 184, 151, 223,
    231, 203, 197, 255, 193, 187, 106, 184, 190, 204, 229,
     79, 143,  63, 255, 193,  56,  22,  46,  23, 200, 253,
     43, 126,  92, 137,  50,  26, 141, 222,  13
  ],
  msig: null
}
algob> assetID =  deployer.asa.get("gold").assetIndex;
25
algob>
```

Here, the smart contract rejects a transaction if Asset Amount > 1000. Transactions for passing & failing scenario are shown below :-

```
algob> .editor
// Entering editor mode (Ctrl+D to finish, Ctrl+C to cancel)
let validParams = {
  type: rtypes.TransactionType.TransferAsset,
  sign: rtypes.SignType.LogicSignature,
  fromAccountAddr: goldOwner.addr,
  toAccountAddr: john.addr,
  amount: 500,
  assetID: 'gold', // passing asa name is also supported
  lsig: lsigGoldOwner,
  payFlags: { totalFee: 1000 }
};

> // Transaction PASS

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
// Transaction passes
```

algob.executeTransaction(deployer, validParams);

{
  'confirmed-round': 4628,
  'pool-error': '',
   ...
}

algob> .editor
// Entering editor mode (Ctrl+D to finish, Ctrl+C to cancel)
validParams.amount = 1500;

> // Transaction FAIL

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
// Transaction fails
```
